So it's time for a quick summary and clean up,
first of all let's clean up. Since we're using ejs now,
we don't need the layouts folder because we only use that for pug and handlebars,
so let's delete layouts here.
We also can delete all hbs, html and pug files here because we don't need either of those,
we just use the ejs files
now, so let's delete all these files.
Now this is much cleaner and now I just want to make sure that you really understood the flow of how
data flows into the templates and what the templating engines do.
We do render a template with the special render method provided by expressjs, that render method will
always look for the registered view engine, something we do here at the beginning in app.js. We do register
our ejs view engine
in this case by setting this special view engine configuration, a reserved configuration key which is understood
by expressjs.
We also tell expressjs where our views are to be found though that actually would be the default
setting here by the way,
so you don't need to add this if you do use the views folder. With that, expressjs
.
will render, will take our templating engine which we still have to install separately as a npm
package
keep that in mind,
we did install ejs as we did install pug and handlebars and then you always just refer to the name
of your view, like we do here, add-product.ejs,
by the way if that were in a subfolder, like products, it would simply refer to it like this.
But then you just refer to that view without adding the file extension and you can also define an
object which will hold the data that is passed as variables into that template,
so not the entire object is passed in there as you learned but instead, you will have a page title variable
available in the template,
you'll have a path variable available in the template and so on
and this is why we can use something like this here. This is now syntax
understood by the specific templating engine we're using, ejs in this case.
It simply detects these tags here and then it simply looks for a variable named page title and tries
to output its value, well and finds the page title
because we do set a page title property here. And we got more features than just outputting values,
as you can see in the shop.ejs file, we can also use if statements or for loops and you learned the
different versions of this for the different view engines in this module.
So this is how the templating engines work, what they do and why you use them
and it's important to keep in mind that in the end if you inspect the source code, you always just get
back normal
html code, you don't find any ejs code in here or any javascript code.
This is just html code that is generated on the fly but also on the server. This is not code
that would be generated in the browser,
it's generated on the server, on demand for the request you're getting. And templating engines also do some
advanced stuff like caching some built templates for you if the data input didn't change, so that they
can return the template even faster and don't have to rebuild it for every request even if the data
didn't change. But that some behind the scenes stuff,
for you it's important to understand the general flow.